[MUSIC PLAYING]
Hello my delicious co-creators.
Lilou here for Gaiam TV.
Today I'm in
beautiful Laguna Beach
at the Three Arches Beach.
Is that right, Steven.
-Three Arch Bay, yes.
Three Arch Bay.
One of the best
beaches in Laguna.
And I'm here with Steven Farmer
that you probably recognize.
Bestselling author.
Could we say even a shaman,
a spiritual teacher?
All of these amazing things.
Soul healer.
Yeah, wannabe
musician, songwriter.
[LAUGHTER]
Got some dreams?
Well, I actually have
recorded some original songs,
and they are-- I do sell
them through my website.
It's a home
recording, so I'm not
sure the-- I think the
quality is pretty decent,
but the songs are great.
I love the songs.
I like the songs that have
emerged over the years.
So that's a bit of a sideline.
It's not my main gig, but yeah.
Something I enjoy.
It's a passion.
Yes.
Well, you obviously
have many, many books
and oracle cards and
videos out there.
Many, many tools
for people to open
them up to the spirit world.
Is that right?
How do you describe
what you want
to share and transmit to the
viewers and to people, readers?
Oh, that's a good
question, Lilou.
My desire and my mission is
to revise our relationship
with the earth.
I think many of us are in
that process in various means,
in various ways.
I'm doing it in a particular
way with my workshops,
my private sessions,
and certainly the books
that I put out, as well
as the oracle cards.
I think we've forgotten that
relationship, particularly
in our Western culture.
And we're learning-- it's
interesting that once we called
indigenous people
primitives, and yet now we're
seeking their help and
seeking their guidance
and seeking to understand more,
how do they view the world?
The earth is alive.
It's full of life.
It's evidence right before you.
Here the ocean.
And hopefully we'll have a
couple of dolphins come by,
if we're lucky.
And we forget that.
We've been prompted over
the last 10,000 years
to gradually separate the
spiritual from the material.
God or gods live up
in the sky somewhere,
and they can only be
reached in some instances
through an intermediary.
Or that we pray up there.
And it began back
10,000 years or so ago,
what we now call animism.
The people that walked
on the earth then really
knew that, just
knew that as a fact
that we are related to
everything on this planet.
Trees, plants,
animals, et cetera.
And in that
relationship, there's
a collaboration that
occurs in the way
that we can receive
messages from the world.
And part of my mission
is to encourage
us to be better listeners.
Listeners with our eyes, our
ears, and certainly our senses.
So what does it take
to open those senses up?
What does it take to
see the intangible?
Is it a question a
feeling it in our hearts?
Can we-- how can we be in
touch with this whole world?
Because we haven't really
grown up, most of us, seeing it
or knowing it.
Yeah.
It's becoming more-- I
don't want to say common,
but I work as-- one
aspect of my work
that's developed in the
last year and a half
is children's products.
And I've had the opportunity
to meet some of these children
that are being
raised by parents who
are in the awakening process.
And I say it's a process.
It's not, you know, something
suddenly, we're awake.
But it's a process.
And these children have
their eyes and their hearts
wide open, and they love nature.
They love the natural world.
So how do we as adults who
have not grown up in this start
to expand our repertoire
of relating to the world
in this particular way?
One of the most accessible
is through animals.
And particularly,
spirit animals.
That's a lot of what I'm
known for is animal spirit
guides teaching
people how to receive
signs from animals who show up.
So that's the most
accessible for most people,
because it's hard
to find anybody that
doesn't love animals at all.
You know, some people don't
like snakes or this or that.
But most people
love some animals,
whether domesticated
or wild animals.
And it's not the
animal itself so much
as when the physical animal
appears in an unusual way
or repeatedly over a
short space of time,
there's something really
unique going on there
and in this collaboration.
I love that word too.
The collaboration that's
going on between me,
the animal, and spirit.
The animal herself or
himself-- I'll say itself,
but it's himself or herself--
the animal that shows
up-- first there's the animal.
First there's the
physical animal.
Wasn't that a nice-- oh,
look at the crow that
just landed on the rock here,
or the dolphins just showed up
there.
That's one thing, OK?
We can enjoy it just
purely for the animal
appearing in some way.
Second though, that
there's a life force
that's animating that animal.
We could call it that
particular animal's spirit.
Third, though-- and this
is where it gets really
fun and interesting--
if, let's say, I'll
use the example of the crow
or the dolphin-- and I've got
stories galore about these
things actually happening.
A crow lands three
feet in front of me
as I'm sitting on my
porch or my balcony,
and looks at me like
this with that one eye.
And I qualify that as unusual.
First there's the crow.
Wow, look.
There's a cool
little experience.
Second is, ooh, it's alive.
So there's a life
force animating it.
Third, though, it goes
something like this.
There's grand central.
Grand central.
Earth and the sky
and the cosmos.
And then there's departments.
And one of the departments
is crow grand central.
So it goes something like this.
The crow-- the big
crow goes, (MUFFLED)
I see there's Farmer and Lilou
who's sitting on the beach
here, and we want to
get a message to them.
So, OK.
Hank.
Hey, Hank.
Yeah, you want to
fly over there?
Just land right
there so we can get
a message to them to see
if they could figure out
what that message is?
And so the crow lands,
and then we go, wow.
OK.
-Like a messenger.
Yeah, exactly.
We're tuned in and we go, whoa,
crow, what's your message?
So that's the gist
of how this works.
It also can be symbolic,
a symbol of an animal.
Like, a lot of people
have these big dreams.
And I call them big dreams,
because they're ones you
wake up and you go, oh, my God.
That was-- and it just
continues to be with you
for the rest of the day.
And the dream about
a particular animal
often can be an animal spirit
guide that's trying to get
a message to you that way.
Like, we don't have a lot of
bears here in Laguna Beach.
But if I have a dream about a
bear, it can be significant.
I had a really cool
experience with a hawk
about four weeks ago.
Four-- a little bit more.
A few weeks back.
Jessica, my wife and
I, were preparing
to meet a dear friend and
sister by another mother,
a sister Eva.
Eva Black Tail Swan.
A Cherokee medicine woman.
Lives out in eastern
Colorado, 80 acre ranch.
I've come to know her
over the last few years
through a mutual friend,
as well as her writings.
Lilou, she goes out every
morning around 4 o'clock
in the morning and looks
for messages, listens.
She's a model for what
I'm talking about here.
I'm not that dedicated to go
out 4 o'clock in the morning.
I like to sleep in a little
bit more, but God bless her.
What she does, she'll
go out and she'll
be-- she'll listen and
tune in to the world,
whatever's going on.
It might be the
buffalo on her ranch.
Might be grandfather wind.
Might be grandmother moon.
And she'll tune in, and
it's a message not only
for her, but for all people.
She calls it "Creator
Song," and sends this out
to her mailing list every day.
I mean, every day for 30 years.
I want to give you a
little background on her
to tell you the story.
She recently was able to publish
a collection of her writings,
"Creator Song."
And they're beautiful.
They're really inspiring.
And I read them every day.
I get them every day, and
I read them every day.
Anyway, that's a
little background.
We got to know each other
through a mutual friend.
Did a workshop together
a couple years back.
And Eva asked me to write
a forward for her book.
And I was happy to do so.
I think her information
needs to be out there.
It's called "Creator Song,"
if anyone's interested.
You can find it on
Amazon, et cetera.
We were preparing,
Jessica and I,
to go to meet her at lunch, OK?
And as you know,
the configuration
where my office is at home,
it's in a separate facility.
It's a separate guest house
that has become my office.
I'm walking out of the office
in the backyard, and zoom.
A hawk, red tail hawk,
flies in, sits on the fence
about 25 feet away.
And given that we were
on the way to see Eva,
not just that but any
time that happens,
I get very, very excited,
almost to the point
of jumping up and down.
Because to me, it's a real
phenomenal experience to have
something like that happen.
So I did what I
suggest to people
in my workshops and my books.
One way to do this--
there's others--
but to get the message from
the animal spirit guide--
not just the animal or
the spirit of that animal,
but the animal spirit guide,
the collective consciousness
of that species, the
oversoul of that species
is what we're talking
about-- I took a deep breath,
closed my eyes, and I
said in my mind, hawk
brother, what's your message?
And then I got bullets.
Bing, bing, bing, bing.
I heard them.
You mentioned that you
can sense these messages.
You can get visions of the
message, or you can hear them.
I tend to hear them.
First one, it was just exactly
like, one, two, three, four.
Here's what you do.
One, restore your faith.
And what that meant to me was,
I get a little-- I'll show you--
honestly, I'll get sloppy.
I'll get forgetful and
not do my spiritual work,
my shamanic journey.
And I hadn't done it for
about four or five days.
So it was like, oh.
OK.
I've got a journey.
Two, let forgiveness
be a priority.
Good message, good reminder.
Good reminder.
Three-- I'm hearing
this, remember-- let go.
That's all I heard was let go.
Again, a good reminder.
Not terribly profound, I would
say, but good reminder for me
at that time.
And the fourth one
was very interesting.
Hawk brother said, when you go
see Eva, pay close attention.
And I went, oh, OK.
And I'm thinking,
well, there's something
she's going to say that's going
to be significant and telling.
We go to lunch at a beautiful,
beautiful restaurant
in a town in Orange County.
You wouldn't believe there's
a nice restaurant like this
there, but we met at this
beautiful restaurant.
They grow their own
vegetables, et cetera,
and that's part of
the salad, and it's
just a really nice atmosphere.
Love seeing her.
She was down from Colorado
to see her mother.
And we chatted a little
bit, get acquainted.
I noticed off to-- we're facing
her-- off to her left side,
there's this tan, beige bag.
And I was curious.
I wonder what that is.
Her purse or something.
10 minutes into our exchange she
says, I have something for you.
Pulls out the bag, zips it
open, pulls out a drum that she
made for me as a thank you.
Beautiful, beautiful
handmade drum.
She makes a lot of drums.
And this one was really special.
And she went on and
explained exactly
how it was made, which part of
the moose was used, et cetera.
Long story, but the point
being is clear, clear
message from hawk brother.
The other-- again, I have
stories after stores.
I mean, I can tell you--
And I have lots of questions.
Please, go with the questions.
That was a long story.
[LAUGHTER]
No, I love it because
you are so passionate.
I just absolutely love it.
And you definitely-- what
are the other-- there's
animals they can give a sign.
But what are some other things
that we can use to open up
to this unseen world?
Again-- well, first I want
to say the way that we get
messages, whether it's
from plants-- which,
tree is a plant, but tree,
I separate that sometimes
in my mind-- and
certainly animals,
but we get it from the wind.
We get it from the ocean.
We get it from the moon.
It's just a matter
of really listening.
And when I say
listening, what I mean
is that we listen not
just with our eyes,
not just with our ears, not just
with our senses, but all three.
And typically, I suggest to
people-- there's, for instance,
spirits of nature divination.
Divination is meaning
getting messages.
And basically you
go outside anywhere.
Could be a beach like
this or could be a forest
or mountains or desert.
And you think of a question
that you want to ask a spirit,
and particularly
through expressing
through or as these
nature spirits.
You think of the
question, close your eyes.
Take about three deep breaths.
Get really grounded.
Feel your connection to
the earth and to the sky.
Just really get grounded.
And then ask as
you open your eyes,
see what your
attention is drawn to.
It could be this rock over here.
It might be the ocean.
It might be the tree over here.
It might be an animal.
It might be one of the
birds that's flying around.
You see-- and listen
how I say this too.
Where your attention is drawn.
Not where you look.
Not in the active sense.
You would call it grammatically
the passive tense.
We see where your
attention is drawn.
And when your attention is drawn
there, you ask the question,
are you my teacher?
Let's say to that rock,
And then you listen.
And you will get a clear
sense of yes or no.
You might hear it,
you might feel it.
And let's say if
you get a no, then
you move on until you're
drawn to something else,
until you get a yes.
But let's say that
rock, you just
get a feeling that it's, yes.
You are my teacher.
What you do then is
you ask your question.
As soon as you ask your
question-- rock spirit,
here's my question--
and I do mean this,
and I'll stress this-- pay
attention to everything that--
360.
[LAUGH]
Everything that
happens after that.
You might be drawn back,
and your attention's
drawn to the ocean.
You hear something about go
with the waves, you know?
Your rock might say, look
how strong and steady I am.
You know, nothing
will wear me down
except a long bout with water.
Pay attention to your emotions.
I'm drawn to the water.
I look up at this
plant here, and spend
some time hanging around.
Don't try to keep
doing all the time.
You know, all these kind
of things may come through.
And all those things probably
are true for me right now,
as I demonstrate that.
Tree.
You go up to a tree.
Sit by a tree for a while.
Put your backbone
against the tree.
Say, tree spirit, teach me.
Teach me what I need to know.
I did this once, and one piece
that I got from this asking
tree spirit when
I was questioning,
because it's good to do
this once in a while.
Like, is my work really helping
people, and blah, blah, blah.
It's good to do that.
Just step back from it.
But not try to figure the
answer out, but get the answer.
So I put my back against a tree
and I said, teach me, tree.
And tree, best way
I could describe
it was a feeling and auditory.
I was hearing and feeling it.
And then I saw this
vision of the roots,
that the ones that immediately
come from the tree, you
can see.
But then the others
go way underground.
You can't see them.
And the message was very
clear, is that you can't always
see the impact that you have
on people, just like the work
that you're doing.
You don't always see it,
but I know that you do.
You impact people
from your work.
Make sense?
-Yes.
It perfectly makes sense.
And you speak also of
memories, cellular memories.
How can we-- does that link
also to being even more
so open to spirit
world when we start
to release some old memories,
when the soul starts to heal?
And is there, like, also this
healing process that needs
to occur for us to be even
clearer channels, if I can say,
of messages, spirit?
-Yes.
And again, we can
employ the assistance
of any kind of spirit guides.
My take on it,
Lilou, is in a sense,
it doesn't really matter who you
pray to or who you work with.
Maybe it's archangels,
maybe it's God,
Jesus, Buddha, animal spirits.
I have a 25,000 year old
being who finally said
I could say his
name. [INAUDIBLE]
I met in a shamanic initiation.
He works with me.
I work with him.
I'm not sure how to say it.
[LAUGH]
We work with one another.
But he teaches me and guides me.
And the more that we open
ourselves to the world
of spirit, something shifts.
I mentioned the term
awakening process.
Something shifts inside us.
Does it change us at
the level of our DNA?
I believe so.
I can't prove it.
I can't prove it,
but I do believe.
I think it starts
adjusting the cells.
We've all heard these
stories of miracles
that have been created.
People with life threatening
illnesses that go home and do
the work that they
need to do, and go back
to the doctor two years later.
Doctor says, wow.
What happened?
What did you do?
How did you do this?
And often medical science,
in the traditional way,
can't believe in miracles.
But I think we have to.
I think it's miraculous to me
to sit here and do this, what
we're doing, to be able to just
stop and listen to the ocean,
and how the ocean
continues to grow.
Or when we go out
and watch-- like,
I planted some corn
and other vegetables.
And to go out day after day
and watch how that-- wow.
It just grows.
I'm going off on a bit of a
tangent from your question.
No, but you're
speaking of opening up
to all these small things
probably that we don't really
pay attention to in our lives.
And this opens up our spirit
world to see the intangible,
and heal from those
different aspects.
Nature naturally heals.
I agree with you.
And the words that come
to mind as we discuss this
is, slow down.
[SIGH]
Everybody's-- yeah.
I take a breath even
when I say that,
because I get caught
up in the hurry
up sickness that is just
a little too prominent
in our culture, in our society.
Turtle.
Turtle spirit.
When I did-- my first book
was "Sacred Ceremony."
And then the next book
is "Power Animals."
And it's 36-- it's a start
with the spirit animal thing.
It was the first step.
36 spirit animals
with a CD in it
where you're guided to
get your power animal,
to find out what spirit
animal is most helpful to you.
That's a power animal.
It's a long-term
relationship, basically.
And I would sit-- it was
so fascinating to me.
I would sit usually at
night, because that's when
I often do my best writing.
And I'd ask each one at a
time, these 36 animals one
at a time, what's your message?
And turtle.
It was so fast-- it
cracks me up still
when I think of this story.
I'm writing away, and I'm
in a little mild trance.
Because in order to access
the communication from spirit,
we need to slow down our
bodies and our senses
so we can be open to it.
When we do slow down
like that, then it
makes it much more
possible for spirit
to collaborate with
us in this way.
So I'm writing.
I said, turtle,
what's your message?
And in my mind my
inner voice-- this
is exactly how it sounded--
(SPEAKING SLOWLY) slow down.
You've got all the
time in the world.
And I went into a deeper trance
when I heard that, you know?
And then continued with
a lengthier message.
But basically, that
was turtle's message.
And turtle has come to
me about a year ago,
and repeatedly came
to me again and again
and again, symbolically
and in the physical form.
And I finally said, are
you joining the crew here?
Meaning, are you
another power animal?
Because I work with-- right
now I work with four, mainly.
And that's enough.
That's enough for the
shamanic work that I do.
And turtle went,
(SPEAKING SLOWLY) yeah.
In that same voice.
So turtle's been
working with me.
And at this era in our history,
and also for me personally,
good message.
Good reminder.
Don't rush through to
where my consciousness
gets ahead of my body.
You know, so many of us do
that when that hurry up--
-Not in the present moment.
-Yeah.
It's a difficult-- how can
you be if you're thinking,
oh, I can't wait to get over to
that other side of the beach.
Then your thoughts and your
consciousness is over there,
but you're not in your body.
And that's, I would say, a
real symptom of our culture
is so many of us
are out of body.
And plus what I said is that
we have separated the spiritual
from the material.
And what's happening now
is we're recognizing,
no, that it's all unified.
That God is in the trees.
God is in you.
God is in me, and
Dennis, and the whales
that we occasionally
see here coming
up to about this time of year.
So the memory, to go back
to the cellular memory
and the awakening
process and all of that,
when does that best occur then?
What is needed for us to
open up to the spirit world?
Yeah, I think that
that's-- Lilou, I
think that goes and starts in--
-Slowing down.
Stops.
[LAUGH]
Yeah.
Slowing down would
be the first thing.
Second is, have a spiritual
discipline of some sort.
A simple one like
with food is prayers.
And it doesn't-- I have a prayer
that I've been really focused
on doing this as much
as I can remember,
and not get in a hurry
to do, which is to pray.
When I sit down before
a meal, whether home
cooked or out at a
restaurant, is just
to say a prayer of gratitude.
Thank you for the beings
that have given their lives,
plants and animals,
so that I can continue
mine for yet another day.
And then there may
be other blessings,
or thank you for the blessings
that we have in our lives.
So I'd say slow down.
Establish a
spiritual discipline.
Could be meditation.
Yoga can be a
spiritual discipline.
Tai Chi.
I found doing both of
those over the years,
those are incredible
spiritual disciplines.
Going to the gym, maybe.
I'm not sure about
weightlifting, but it could be.
But something that requires
your focus on spirit in whatever
form that takes.
Third, get outside.
Go for walk in nature.
Slow down.
I often prescribe to people
to do a walking meditation.
Thich Nhat Hanh, the Vietnamese
Buddhist monk, where you slow
down maybe 80% of your pace.
Everything.
And just move at a much--
not a ra-- yeah, I know.
[LAUGH]
Try it for five minutes, folks.
It's a challenge.
It's much more-- especially if
you're accustomed to that hurry
up, getting to the next step,
getting from point A to point B
rather than being
right here at point A.
So that's another thing
is to get outdoors too
and enjoy the natural world.
The natural world is just,
again, it's miraculous.
It's amazing.
And just to go out
with that in mind
is just to appreciate
what's there.
The fourth, and I've
mentioned this, is gratitude.
How much we truly have
to be grateful for.
It's been said so many times.
There's a wonderful piece
by David Steindl-Rast
that talks about that.
He says, this is it.
This is the day that's
been gifted to you.
I'm paraphrasing what he said.
This is a gift.
Treat it as a gift.
And the best response to
the gift is gratitude.
To be grateful for the
opportunity to come down here
to this wonderful beach and
do this interview on, again,
one of the best beaches
in Laguna Beach,
if not Southern California.
And share in an exchange
like this that will go out
to a number of
people, and hopefully
will inspire some to do
some of these things.
To get outside.
Go sit by a tree.
Try it.
Sit by a tree.
Put your back against
a tree and just say,
tree spirit-- close your eyes.
You don't have to
believe this, by the way.
Don't believe it
or disbelieve it.
Try it.
You can even do it at home
maybe, feeling the tree also.
Or does it need to
be physically a tree?
Good question.
And I prefer to say get outside.
But you could do
it in a meditation.
I just think it becomes that
much more-- because we're
physical beings, if we
can make physical contact
with the world in
some way, it just adds
a little extra oomph to it.
And yes, you could
do it at home.
Just like any meditation,
you can visualize or feel
or just sense that tree rubbing
up against your backbone,
or sitting there
with the backbone.
It reminds me of another--
You have helicopters here, huh?
Yeah, that's our military
base down South Pendleton.
We had it last time too in
our last other interview,
I remember.
-Yes.
Yes.
We made jokes about it
and here it is again.
There it is again, yeah.
You should see them
when it's summertime.
They frequently go back
and forth along the beach.
I think the Marines like to
check out who's on the beach,
or something like that.
[LAUGH]
I had a healing from
a tree years ago.
I wrote about this in
my book "Earth Magic."
And it was very, very real.
The short story was I
twisted my back dancing,
and I was really sore.
And I was in the
middle of an assignment
that spirit gave me,
specifically [INAUDIBLE],
the one I mentioned
before, to go
out and just learn from tree.
So I'd sit with tree every day.
I'd offer tobacco and
I'd sit with tree.
I believe it was the third,
maybe the fourth day.
That's when I had a sore
back and I said, OK.
I've got to do this.
Lunchtime.
Had lunch, went back
out to the tree,
offered tobacco, sat
against the tree,
and was prepared to
ask for teaching.
Tell me anything
else I need to know.
And then it occurred to me,
why not ask for healing?
So I did.
I said, tree spirit, I'd like
you to heal my back, please.
Sat there, breathed with
the tree, a few minutes.
Got up and ah, man.
Still sore.
I said, oh, well.
It was worth a shot.
You never know.
Try it out, like I tell people.
Try it out.
See what happens.
Went and listened to the
lecture for about an hour.
Got up at the break.
Walked to get some tea
or something like that.
And after about 10 steps
I went, wait a minute.
You were not hurting anymore.
It's all gone.
Swear.
I Swear to God.
Or swear to tree.
[LAUGH]
So back to your
question about cellular,
yeah, our cells are changing.
And I'm working on a
proposal for a book
right now that will
be a book-- I know it
will-- healing ancestral karma.
And it goes into a lot of that--
it addresses that question
quite extensively is that,
we come into this world
with a certain karma.
We certainly are influenced
by the external experiences
that come from the outside.
But there is a souls karma
that comes from our ancestors,
and that is both at
the spiritual level
as well as the genetic level.
The good news is that
we're not stuck with that.
And what will change our
karma-- psychology can help.
But I think ultimately it has
to lead to a spiritual journey
to change that karma.
I know people, and myself.
I look at myself and how
I've changed over the years.
I was really a
pretty messed up kid.
Shy, withdrawn, real
watcher, you know?
Careful about being with people.
And I cannot tell you how I was
called to be in situations that
forced me to come out of
that hard shell that was
around me for so many years.
One thing after another.
And I don't need to go into
a lot of stories about that.
But just know that there was one
experience and one experience,
another one.
And each one pushed me out
further out of my comfort zone
and into this path here.
I was a psychotherapist
for a number of years.
I've done a lot of therapy
to do some healing.
I was just called to do it.
I had to.
God sort of kicked my
rear end a couple times.
And that's sometimes
forces us-- I
call it the two by four approach
where he hits us with a two
by four, and it's either
you go down in the spiral,
or you wake up.
Like the stick of awakening
in that Buddhist practice.
So we can change that.
And what happens as we work
with it in any of these ways
that I'm describing
here, is we change
at a very fundamental level.
I know that I'm the same, but
I'm so much different than I
was, say, even 20 years ago.
And if I look at
40 years ago, I'm
going jeez, who was that guy?
I know it's me.
It was me, I think.
But it was so different.
Isn't that true?
Don't you notice that?
And those kids, you
feel they have more
or less-- more karma or not?
Or do you think they're
more aware and available
and here and talking to spirit
because they have less of it?
They have not only
less of it, but they've
got parents and others
who influence them,
that are encouraging them
to be open to spirit.
I've recently been called
to do children's products,
which I never would've
thought five years ago
I'd be doing them.
We came up-- and this was
actually Jessica's idea.
We were talking about
the power animal
cards and the other oracle
cards I do, and she says,
you should do one for kids.
And I pitched it
to one publisher.
We don't do too many
children's products.
Then I was talking with Karen
Stuth of Satiama, website
satiama.com, who's
really trying to get--
she's on a mission
to really encourage
us to be attuned to spirit.
And she said, let's do it.
I told her about the cards.
She said, let's
do it, and we did.
And these cards,
called "Children's
Spirit Animal Cards," 24 cards.
Great illustrations by
Pamela Anzalotti is her name.
She really nailed it.
Simple messages.
Basically values
on the messages.
Guidebook that has a
section for parents.
How to work with the
children with these cards.
For children, older
children who can read.
That's basically six
to maybe 10 or 11.
But I've heard three-year-olds
love to play with them,
like the pictures, et cetera.
And not that it's
the only instrument,
but it's one way that it
can encourage both parents
and children--
encourage children,
but also encourage parents with
children to tune into spirit
more through the animals.
That's why I love this whole
thing with animal spirit
guides, is it makes it
so much more accessible
both for children and adults.
I was doing a workshop for
parents and children in Florida
a few months back.
That was six delightful children
that were in that workshop,
and their parents
or grandparents.
And this one little
girl Joanie, I
remember her
because of something
she said later to her mom.
I learned that she
was taught to meditate
when she was a year old.
I don't know how, or
what the meditation was.
But she came out one
day, probably a year
and a half old to
the kitchen where
her mother was busy and said,
Mommy, I want to meditate.
And mommy said, I
can't right now.
I'm busy.
I've got things to do.
And she had a tantrum because
she couldn't meditate.
How's that?
[LAUGH]
That's telling right there.
And the openness and
the love these children
have for the animals,
for instance.
And the parents, I
congratulate the parents
who are facilitating
this, who are
making room for these children.
So, yeah.
They come in with certain karma.
But again, the blessing
is they have parents
who are able to work
with them to help
remember who we really are in
this whole scheme of things.
And they remind
the parents too.
[LAUGH]
-All the time.
Don't they always.
Yeah.
It works the other way around.
Well, this has been
amazing, Steven.
Is there anything else
that comes to your mind
that you would like to share
as part of this conversation,
as teachings, of course, and
your message about spirit,
about opening up,
about awakening,
about maybe ascension or these
times, these particular times?
Yeah.
I mean, I could say a lot.
I think since as this
interview is being taped,
we're close to that
magic marker, you know?
December 21.
12/21/12.
There's two things
I think about that.
One is it's not as big a
deal as everybody makes it,
quite frankly.
I just don't think so.
It's like an event of something.
No, we're already in process.
There's dramatic
changes going on.
Has anybody read the
papers or watched the news?
There's incredible
changes going on,
and it is going to require
us to adapt and to adjust
as a species, as human species.
There's a cleansing that's
going on, quite frankly.
It's happening.
We know that.
And everybody's, like, wanting
to do this ascension thing.
And I have a point
of view about that.
I think we should talk about
descending, being on the earth,
learning how to live with the
Earth more than ascending.
That to me sounds very
similar to rise above it
or just when you get into
a certain consciousness,
you're going to elevate off the
earth or something like that.
I never quite understood
it, but that's me.
That's just me.
My name is Farmer.
I'm triple earth sign.
I was born in Iowa, the Midwest.
So I'm real-- grr.
Real grounded.
-Spirit, yeah.
So ground yourself, descending.
Yeah, I can see that.
And to learn to-- remember
to relate to the earth.
Relate to the--
it's not the earth.
We don't need to save the earth.
We need to revise our
relationship with the earth.
That's what it's about.
The earth's doing fine.
It's been around for four
and a half billion years.
I think it's going to
continue on for a while.
And we just need to readjust our
ways of relating to the earth.
So I think we're going to enter
into this next cycle, 2013.
It's some ways very exciting.
It can be scary.
But I think if we focus on
the fear, it's not helping.
Gratitude, the things I said.
Slow down.
Get outside.
Learn to relate to the
plants and the trees
and the animals in
a different way.
And every day,
like Eva says, she
starts-- the Cherokee way is to
start every day with gratitude.
Sing songs of
gratitude every day,
or just make a list of 10
things that you're grateful for.
More and more as I go
on, Lilou, I really
think-- I keep that in mind
as much as possible to,
if I get in a grumpy mood
or something like that,
is get out of it as
quickly as possible.
And the best way to do is look
around and remind myself what
I'm really, truly grateful for.
What a privilege to live
at this era in our planet.
And maybe there's lifetimes
before and lifetimes after,
but this is where I am now.
So to enjoy, to be of service,
to offer whatever I can
to the world and to
the people around me,
and close in as well as more
the larger, extended clan.
So yeah.
Beautiful.
Thank you for this
delicious moment.
Thank you for watching
and sharing this video.
This was another beautiful
interview for Gaiam TV
even Steven Farmer.
And if people want to know
more, go to my website.
It's called earthmagic.net.
Free oracle card
readings, all sorts
articles and stuff like that.
So it's been my pleasure, Lilou.
Thank you.
You're still on radio?
No I dropped the radio,
because I'm going to be-- I'm
working on a book, and I
just felt done with it.
I felt complete.
So I'll be on other people's
radio stations and TV shows.
But that's another
important thing to move on
and to follow our
intuition and to also
clear some things for other
things to come in, huh?
Good point.
Yeah.
It was beginning to
feel-- I was just--
the best way I can describe
it, I just felt complete.
Like, oh, OK.
I'm done with this part.
I'd done radio
for several years.
I enjoyed it.
And if it's not
happening anymore,
then it is time to move
on, whatever that is.
Beautiful.
Much, much love.
Blessings.
Bye-bye.
[LAUGH]